<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>CreateSpace Word Templates</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<span>
<div class="calibre11">
<br clear="all" class="calibre5"/>
</div></span>
<div class="calibre5">
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p id="filepos242677" class="calibre_8"><span class="calibre11"><span class="bold"><a>I: EXPOSITION OF THE TASK OF A PREPARATORY ANALYSIS OF DASEIN</a>
</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p id="filepos243015" class="calibre_10"><span class="calibre11"><span class="bold"><span class="italic"><a><span>9. The Theme of the Analytic of Dasein</span></a><span>
</span></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_1"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic"><span>H. 42</span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">WE are ourselves the entities to be analysed. The Being of any such entity is <span class="italic">in each case mine</span><span>.(1) </span>These entities, in their Being, comport themselves towards their Being. As entities with such Being, they are delivered over to their own Being.(2) <span class="italic">Being</span><span>
</span>is that which is an issue for every such entity.(3) This way of characterizing Dasein has a double consequence: </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">1. ‘Das Seiende, dessen Analyse zur Aufgabe steht, sind wir je selbst. Das Sein dieses Seienden ist <span class="italic">je meines</span><span>.’ </span>The reader must not get the impression that there is anything solipsistic about the second of these sentences. The point is merely that the kind of Being which belongs to Dasein is of a sort which any of us may call his own. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">2. ‘Als Seiendes dieses Seins ist es seinem eigenen Sein überantwortet.’ The earlier editions read ‘...seinem eigenen Zu-sein...’ </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">3. See note 2, H. 8 above. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_13"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">1. </span></span><span><span class="calibre10">The ‘essence’ [“Wesen”] of this entity lies in its “to be” [Zu-sein]. Its Being-what-it-is [Was-sein] <span>(<span class="italic">essentia</span>) </span>must, so far as we can speak of it at all, be conceived in terms of its Being <span>(<span class="italic">existentia</span>). </span>But here our ontological task is to show that when we choose to designate the Being of this entity as “existence” [Existenz], this term does not and cannot have the ontological signification of the traditional term <span>“<span class="italic">existentia</span>”; </span>ontologically, <span class="italic">existentia</span><span> is tantamount of </span><span class="italic">Being-<span>present-at-hand</span></span><span>, </span>a kind of Being which is essentially inappropriate to entities of Dasein’s character. To avoid getting bewildered, we shall always use the Interpretative expression <span>“<span class="italic">presence-at-hand</span>” </span>for the term <span>“<span class="italic">existentia</span>”, </span>while the term “existence”, as a designation of Being, will be allotted solely to Dasein.</span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span class="italic"><span><span class="calibre10">The ‘essence’ of Dasein lies in its existence</span></span></span><span><span class="calibre10">. </span></span><span><span class="calibre10">Accordingly those characteristics which can be exhibited in this entity are not ‘properties’ present-at-hand of some entity which ‘looks’ so and so and is itself present-at-hand; they are in each case possible ways for it to be, and no more than that. All the Being-as-it-is [So-sein] which this entity possesses is primarily Being. So when we designate this entity with the term ‘Dasein’, we are expressing not its “what” (as if it were a table, house or tree) but its Being. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">2. That Being which is an <span class="italic">issue</span><span>
</span>for this entity in its very Being, is in each case mine. Thus Dasein is never to be taken ontologically as an instance or special case of some genus of entities as things that are present-at-hand.(1) To entities such as these, their Being is ‘a matter of indifference’<span>;(2) </span>or more precisely, they ‘are’ such that their Being can be neither a matter of indifference to them, nor the opposite. Because Dasein has <span class="italic">in each case mineness</span> [<span class="italic">Jemeinigkeit</span>], one must always use a <span class="italic">personal </span>pronoun when one addresses it: ‘I am’, ‘you are’. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">Furthermore, in each case Dasein is mine to be in one way or another. Dasein has always made some sort of decision as to the way in which it is in each case mine [je meines]. That entity which in its Being has this very Being as an issue, comports itself towards its Being as its ownmost possibility. In each case Dasein <span class="italic">is</span><span>
</span>its possibility, and it ‘has’ this possibility, but not just as a property [eigenschaftlich], as something present-at-hand would. And because Dasein is in each case essentially its own possibility, it <span class="italic">can</span>, in its very Being, ‘choose’ itself and win itself; it can also lose itself and never win itself; or only ‘seem’ to do so. But only in so far as it is essentially something which can be <span class="italic">authentic</span><span>—that </span>is, something of its own(3)—can it have lost itself and not yet won itself. As modes of Being, <span class="italic">authenticity</span><span>
</span>and <span class="italic">inauthenticity</span><span>
</span>(these expressions have been chosen terminologically in a strict sense) are both grounded in the fact that any Dasein whatsoever is characterized by mineness.(4) But the inauthenticity of Dasein does not signify any ‘less’ Being or any ‘lower’ degree of Being. Rather it is the case that even in its fullest concretion Dasein can be characterized by inauthenticity—when busy, when excited, when interested, when ready for joyment. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">1. ‘…als Vorhandenem’. The earlier editions have the adjective ‘vorhandenem’ instead of the substantive. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">2. ‘gleichgültig’. This adjective must be distinguished from the German adjective ‘indifferent’, though they might both ordinarily be translated by the English ‘indifferent’, which we shall reserve exclusively for the former. In most passages, the latter is best translated by ‘undifferentiated’ or ‘without further differentiation’; occasionally, however, it seems preferable to translate it by ‘Indifferent’ with an initial capital. We shall follow similar conventions with the nouns ‘Gleichgültigkeit’ and ‘Indifferenz’. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">3. ‘Und weil Dasein wesenhaft je seine Möglichkeit ist, <span class="italic">kann</span><span>
</span>dieses Seiende in seinem Sein sich selbst “wählen”, gewinnen, es kann sich verlieren, bzw. nie und nur “scheinbar” gewinnen. Verloren haben kann es sich nur und noch nicht sich gewonnen haben kann es nur, sofern es seinem Wesen nach mögliches <span class="italic">eigentliches</span><span>, </span>das heisst sich zueigen ist.’ Older editions have ‘je wesenhaft’ and ‘zueigenes’. The connection between ‘eigentlich’ (‘authentic’, ‘real’) and ‘eigen’ (‘own’) is lost in translation. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">4. ‘…dass Dasein überhaupt durch Jemeinigkeit bestimmt ist.’ </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 43</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_13"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">The two characteristics of Dasein which we have sketched—the priority of <span>‘<span class="italic">existentia</span>’ </span>over <span class="italic">essentia</span><span>, </span>and the fact that Dasein is in each case mine [die Jemeinigkeit]—have already indicated that in the analytic of this entity we are facing a peculiar phenomenal domain. Dasein does not have the kind of Being which belongs to something merely present-at-hand within the world, nor does it ever have it. So neither is it to be presented thematically as something we come across in the same way as we come across what is present-at-hand. The right way of presenting it is so far from self-evident that to determine what form it shall take is itself an essential part of the ontological analytic of this entity. Only by presenting this entity in the right way can we have any understanding of its Being. No matter how provisional our analysis may be, it always requires the assurance that we have started correctly.</span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">In determining itself as an entity, Dasein always does so in the light of a possibility which it <span class="italic">is</span><span>
</span>itself and which, in its very Being, it somehow understands. This is the formal meaning of Dasein’s existential constitution. But this tells us that if we are to Interpret this entity <span class="italic">ontologically</span><span>, </span>the problematic of its Being must be developed from the existentiality of its existence. This cannot mean, however, that “Dasein” is to be construed in terms of some concrete possible idea of existence. At the outset of our analysis it is particularly important that Dasein should not be Interpreted with the differentiated character [Differenz] of some definite way of existing, but that it should be uncovered [aufgedeckt] in the undifferentiated character which it has proximally and for the most part. This undifferentiated character of Dasein’s everydayness is <span class="italic">not nothing</span><span>, </span>but a positive phenomenal characteristic of this entity. Out of this kind of Being—and back into it again—is all existing, such as it <span>is.(1) </span>We call this everyday undifferentiated character of Dasein <span>“<span class="italic">averageness</span>” [<span class="italic">Durchschnittlichkeit</span>]. </span></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 44</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">And because this average everydayness makes up what is ontically proximal for this entity, it has again and again been <span class="italic">passed over</span><span>
</span>in explicating Dasein. That which is ontically closest and well known, is ontologically the farthest and not known at all; and its ontological signification is constantly overlooked. When Augustine asks: <span class="italic">“Quid autem propinquius meipso mihi?”</span><span>
</span>and must answer: <span class="italic">“ego certe laboro hic et laboro in meipso: factus sum mihi terra difficultatis et sudoris nimii”</span><span>,(i) </span>this applies not only to the ontical and pre-ontological opaqueness of Dasein but even more to the ontological task which lies ahead; for not only must this entity not be missed in that kind of Being in which it is phenomenally closest, but it must be made accessible by a positive characterization. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">Dasein’s average everydayness, however, is not to be taken as a mere ‘aspect’. Here too, and even in the mode of inauthenticity, the structure of existentiality lies <span class="italic">a priori</span><span>. </span>And here too Dasein’s Being is an issue for it in a definite way; and Dasein comports itself towards it in the mode of average everydayness, even if this is only the mode of fleeing <span class="italic">in the face of it</span><span>
</span>and forgetfulness <span class="italic">thereof</span><span>.(2)</span></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">i. St. Augustine, <span class="italic">Confessiones</span><span>, X, </span>16. [‘But what is closer to me than myself? Assuredly I labour here and I labour within myself; I have become to myself a land of trouble and inordinate sweat.’—Tr.] </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9"><span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">1. ‘Aus dieser Seinsart heraus und in sie zurück ist alles Existieren, wie es ist.’ </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">2. ‘Auch in ihr geht es dem Dasein in bestimmter Weise um sein Sein, zu dem es sich im Modus der durchschnittlichen Alltäglichkeit verhält und sei es auch nur im Modus der Flucht <span class="italic">davor</span><span>
</span>und des Vergessens <span class="italic">seiner</span><span>.’ </span>For further discussion, see Section 40 below. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_13"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">But the explication of Dasein in its average everydayness does not give us just average structures in the sense of a hazy indefiniteness. Anything which, taken ontically, <span class="italic">is</span><span>
</span>in an average way, can be very well grasped ontologically in pregnant structures which may be structurally indistinguishable from certain ontological characteristics [Bestimmungen] of an <span class="italic">authentic</span><span>
</span>Being of Dasein. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 45</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">All <span class="italic">explicata</span><span>
</span>to which the analytic of Dasein gives rise are obtained by considering Dasein’s existence-structure. Because Dasein’s characters of Being are defined in terms of existentiality, we call them “<span class="italic"><span>e x i s t e n t i a l i a</span></span><span>”. </span>These are to be sharply distinguished from what we call <span>“<span class="italic">categories</span>”—</span>characteristics of Being for entities whose character is not that of Dasein.(1)<span>
</span>Here we are taking the expression “category” in its primary ontological signification, and abiding by it. In the ontology of the ancients, the entities we encounter within the world(2) are taken as the basic examples for the interpretation of Being. <span class="italic">Νοεῖν</span><span>
</span>(or the <span class="italic">λόγος</span>, as the case may be) is accepted as a way of access to them.(3) Entities are encountered therein. But the Being of these entities must be something which can be grasped in a distinctive kind of <span class="italic">λέγειν</span> (letting something be seen), so that this Being becomes intelligible in advance as that which it is—and as that which it is already in every entity. In any discussion (<span class="italic">λόγος</span>) of entities, we have previously addressed ourselves to Being; this addressing is <span class="italic">κατηγορεῖσθαι</span><span>.(4) </span>This signifies, in the first instance, making a public accusation, taking someone to task for something in the presence of everyone. When used ontologically, this term means taking an entity to task, as it were, for whatever it is as an entity—that is to say, letting everyone see it in its Being. The <span class="italic">κατηγορίαι</span> are what is sighted and what is visible in such a seeing.(5) They include the various ways in which the nature of those entities which can be addressed and discussed in a <span class="italic">λόγος </span>may be determined <span class="italic">a priori</span><span>. <span class="italic">Existentialia</span>
</span>and categories are the two basic possibilities for characters of Being. The entities which correspond to them require different kinds of primary interrogation respectively: any entity is either a <span>“<span class="italic">who</span>” </span>(existence) or a <span>“<span class="italic">what</span>” </span>(presence-at-hand in the broadest sense). The connection between these two modes of the characters of Being cannot be handled until the horizon for the question of Being has been clarified.</span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">1. ‘Weil sie sich aus der Existenzialität bestimmen, nennen wir die Seinscharaktere des Daseins <span class="italic">Existenzialien</span><span>. </span>Sie sind scharf zu trennen von den Seinsbestimmungen des nicht daseinsmässigen Seienden, die wir <span class="italic">Kategorien</span><span>
</span>nennen.’ </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">2. ‘…das innerhalb der Welt begegnende Seiende.’ More literally: ‘the entity that encounters within the world.’ While Heidegger normally uses the verb ‘begegnen’ in this active intransitive sense, a similar construction with the English ‘encounter’ is unidiomatic and harsh. We shall as a rule use either a passive construction (as in ‘entities encountered’) or an active transitive construction (as in ‘entities we encounter’). </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">3. ‘Als Zugangsart zu ihm gilt das <span class="italic">νοεῖν</span> bzw. der <span class="italic">λόγος</span>.’ Here we follow the reading of the earlier editions. In the later editions, ‘Zugangsart’, which is used rather often, is here replaced by ‘Zugangsort’, which occurs very seldom and is perhaps a misprint. This later version might be translated as follows: <span>‘<span class="italic">νοεῖν</span>
</span>(or the <span class="italic">λόγος</span>, as the case may be) is accepted as the locus of access to such entities.’ On <span class="italic">νοεῖν</span><span>
</span>and <span class="italic">λόγος</span><span>
</span>see Section 7 above, especially H. 32-34. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">4. ‘Das je schon vorgängige Ansprechen des Seins im Besprechen (<span class="italic">λόγος</span><span>) </span>des Seienden ist das <span class="italic">κατηγορεῖσθαι</span><span>.’</span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">5. ‘Das in solchem Sehen Gesichtete und Sichtbare...’ On ‘Sehen’ and ‘Sicht’ see H. 1<span>47. </span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_13"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">In our introduction we have already intimated that in the existential analytic of Dasein we also make headway with a task which is hardly less pressing than that of the question of Being itself—the task of laying bare that <span class="italic">a <span>priori</span></span><span>
</span>basis which must be visible before the question of ‘what man is’ can be discussed philosophically. The existential analytic of Dasein comes <span class="italic">before</span><span>
</span>any psychology or anthropology, and certainly before any biology. While these too are ways in which Dasein can be investigated, we can define the theme of our analytic with greater precision if we distinguish <span>it </span>from these. And at the same time the necessity of that analytic can thus be proved more incisively. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13"></span></span></span></p>
<p id="filepos264273" class="calibre_10"><span class="calibre11"><span class="bold"><span class="italic"><a><span>10. How the Analytic of Dasein is to be Distinguished from Anthropology, Psychology, and Biology</span></a><span></span></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">After a theme for investigation has been initially outlined in positive terms, it is always important to show what is to be ruled out, although it can easily become fruitless to discuss what is not going to happen. We must show that those investigations and formulations of the question which have been aimed at Dasein heretofore, have missed the real <span class="italic">philosophical</span><span>
</span>problem (notwithstanding their objective fertility), and that as long as they persist in missing it, they have no right to claim that they <span class="italic">can</span><span>
</span>accomplish that for which they are basically striving. In distinguishing the existential analytic from anthropology, psychology, and biology, we shall confine ourselves to what is in principle the ontological question. Our distinctions will necessarily be inadequate from the standpoint of ‘scientific theory’ simply because the scientific structure of the above-mentioned disciplines (not, indeed, the ‘scientific attitude’ of those who work to advance them) is today thoroughly questionable and needs to be attacked in new ways which must have their source in ontological problematics. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 46</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">Historiologically, the aim of the existential analytic can be made plainer by considering Descartes, who is credited with providing the point of departure for modern philosophical inquiry by his discovery of the <span>“<span class="italic">cogito sum</span>”. </span>He investigates the <span>“<span class="italic">cogitare</span>” </span>of the <span>“<span class="italic">ego</span>”, </span>at least within certain limits. On the other hand, he leaves the “<span class="italic">sum</span>” completely undiscussed, even though it is regarded as no less primordial that the <span class="italic">cogito</span>. Our </span></span><span><span class="calibre13">analytic raises the ontological question of the Being of the <span>“<span class="italic">sum</span>”. </span>Not until the nature of this Being has been determined can we grasp the kind of Being which belongs to <span class="italic">cogitationes</span><span>. </span></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">At the same time it is of course misleading to exemplify the aim of our analytic historiologically in this way. One of our first tasks will be to prove that if we posit an “I” or subject as that which is proximally given, we shall completely miss the phenomenal content [Bestand] of Dasein. <span class="italic">Ontologically</span><span>, </span>every idea of a ‘subject’—unless refined by a previous ontological determination of its basic character—still posits the <span class="italic">subjectum</span><span> (</span></span></span><span class="italic"><span><span class="calibre13">ὐποκείμενον</span></span></span><span><span class="calibre13">) </span></span><span><span class="calibre13">along with it, no matter how vigorous one’s ontical protestations against the ‘soul substance’ or the ‘reification of consciousness’. The Thinghood itself which such reification implies must have its ontological origin demonstrated if we are to be in a position to ask what we are to understand <span class="italic">positively</span><span>
</span>when we think of the unreified <span class="italic">Being</span><span>
</span>of the subject, the soul, the consciousness, the spirit, the person. All these terms refer to definite phenomenal domains which can be ‘given form’ [“ausformbare”]: but they are never used without a notable failure to see the need for inquiring about the Being of the entities thus designated. So we are not being terminologically arbitrary when we avoid these terms—or such expressions as ‘life’ and ‘man’—in designating those entities which we are ourselves. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">On the other hand, if we understand it rightly, in any serious and scientifically-minded ‘philosophy of life’ (this expression says about as much as “the botany of plants”) there lies an unexpressed tendency towards an understanding of Dasein’s Being. What is conspicuous in such a philosophy (and here it is defective in principle) is that here ‘life’ itself as a kind of Being does not become ontologically a problem. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 47</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">The researches of Wilhelm Dilthey were stimulated by the perennial question of ‘life’. Starting from ‘life’ itself as a whole, he tried to understand its ‘Experiences’(1) in their structural and developmental inter-connections. His <span>‘<span class="italic">geisteswissenschaftliche Psychologie</span>’ </span>is one which no longer seeks to be oriented towards psychical elements and atoms or to piece the life of the soul together, but aims rather at <span>‘<span class="italic">Gestalten</span>’ </span>and ‘life as a whole’. Its philosophical relevance, however, is not to be sought here, but rather in the fact that in all this he was, <span class="italic">above all</span><span>, </span>on his way towards the question of ‘life’. To be sure, we can also see here very plainly how limited were both his problematic and the set of concepts with which it had to be put </span></span><span><span class="calibre13">into words. These limitations, however, are found not only in Dilthey and Bergson but in all the ‘personalistic’ movements to which they have given direction and in every tendency towards a philosophical anthropology. The phenomenological Interpretation of personality is in principle more radical and more transparent; but the question of the Being of Dasein has a dimension which this too fails to enter. No matter how much Husserl(ii) and Scheler may differ in their respective inquiries, in their methods of conducting them, and in their orientations towards the world as a whole, they are fully in agreement on the negative side of their Interpretations of personality. The question of ‘personal <span class="italic">Being</span><span>’ </span>itself is one which they no longer raise. We have chosen Scheler’s Interpretation as an example, not only because it is accessible in print,(iii) but because he emphasizes personal Being explicitly as such, and tries to determine its character by defining the specific Being of acts as contrasted with anything ‘psychical’. For Scheler, the person is never to be thought of as a Thing or a substance; the person ‘is rather the <span class="italic">unity</span><span>
</span>of living-through [Er-lebens] which is immediately experienced in and with our Experiences—not a Thing merely thought of behind and outside what is immediately Experienced’.(iv) The person is no Thinglike and substantial Being. Nor can the Being of a person be entirely absorbed in being a subject of rational acts which follow certain laws. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">ii. Edmund Husserl’s investigations of the ‘personality’ have not as yet been published. The basic orientation of his problematic is apparent as early as his paper ‘Philosophie als strenge Wissenschaft’, <span class="italic">Logos</span><span>, </span>vol. I, 1910, p. 319. His investigation was carried much further in the second part of his <span>Ideen </span>zu <span>einer reinen <span class="italic">Phänomenologie und phänomenologischen Philosophie</span> (<span class="italic">Husserliana</span>
</span>IV), of which the first part (Cf. this <span class="italic">Jahrbuch</span><span> [<span class="italic">Jahrbuch für Philosophie und phänomenologische Forschung</span>—Tr.] </span>vol. I, 1913), presents the problematic of ‘pure consciousness’ as the basis for studying the Constitution of any Reality whatsoever. His detailed Constitutional analyses are to be found in three sections of the second part, where he treats: 1. the Constitution of material Nature; 2. the Constitution of animal Nature; 3. the Constitution of the spiritual world (the personalistic point of view as opposed to the naturalistic). Husserl begins with the words: ‘Although Dilthey grasped the problems which point the way, and saw the directions which the work to be done would have to take, he still failed to penetrate to any decisive formulations of these problems, or to any solutions of them which are methodologically correct.’ Husserl has studied these problems still more deeply since this first treatment of them; essential portions of his work have been communicated in his Freiburg lectures. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">iii. This <span class="italic">Jahrbuch</span><span>, </span>vol. 1, 2, 1913, and II, 1916; cf. especially pp. 242 <span>ff. </span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">iv. <span class="italic">Ibid</span><span>., </span>II, p. 243. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9"></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">1. ‘Die “Erlebnisse” dieses “Lebens”...’ The connection between ‘Leben’ (‘life’) and ‘Erlebnisse’ (‘Experiences’) is lost in translation. An ‘Erlebnis’ is not just <span class="italic">any</span><span>
</span>‘experience’ (‘Erfahrung’) but one which we feel deeply and ‘live through’. We shall translate ‘Erlebnis’ and ‘erleben’ by ‘Experience’ with a capital ‘E’, reserving ‘experience’ for ‘Erfahrung’ and ‘erfahren’. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 48</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">The person is not a Thing, not a substance, not an object. Here Scheler is emphasizing what Husserl(v) suggests when he insists that the unity of the person must have a Constitution essentially different from that required for the unity of Things of Nature.(1) What Scheler says of the person, he applies to acts as well: ‘But an act is never also an object; for it is essential to the Being of acts that they are Experienced only in their performance itself and given in reflection.”(vi) Acts are something non-psychical. Essentially the person exists only in the performance of intentional acts, and is therefore essentially <span class="italic">not</span><span>
</span>an object. Any psychical Objectification of acts, and hence any way of taking them as something psychical, is tantamount to depersonalization. A person is in any case given as a performer of intentional acts which are bound together by the unity of a meaning. Thus psychical Being has nothing to do with personal Being. Acts get performed; the person is a performer of acts. What, however, is the ontological meaning of ‘performance’? How is the kind of Being which belongs to a person to be ascertained ontologically in a positive way? But the critical question cannot stop here. It must face the Being of the whole man, who is customarily taken as a unity of body, soul, and spirit. In their turn “body”, “soul”, and “spirit” may designate phenomenal domains which can be detached as themes for definite investigations; within certain limits their ontological indefiniteness may not be important.</span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">v. Cf. <span class="italic">Logos</span> I, <span class="italic">lot. cit</span>. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">vi. <span class="italic">Ibid</span>., p. 246. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9"></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">1. ‘…wenn er für die Einheit der Person eine wesentlich andere Konstitution fordert als für die der Naturdinge.’ The second ‘der’ appears in the later editions only. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_14"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">When, however, we come to the question of man’s Being, this is not something we can simply compute(1) by adding together those kinds of Being which body, soul, and spirit respectively possess—kinds of Being whose nature has not as yet been determined. And even if we should attempt such an ontological procedure, some idea of the Being of the whole must be presupposed. But what stands in the way of the basic question of Dasein’s Being (or leads <span>it </span>off the track) is an orientation thoroughly coloured by the anthropology of Christianity and the ancient world, whose inadequate ontological foundations have been overlooked both by the philosophy of life and by personalism. There are two important elements in this traditional anthropology: </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">1. Reading ‘errechnet’. The earliest editions have ‘verrechnet’, with the correct reading provided in a list of <span class="italic">errata</span><span>. </span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_13"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">1. ‘Man’ is here defined as a <span class="italic">ζῷον λόγον ἔχον</span>, and this is Interpreted to mean an <span class="italic">animal rationale</span><span>, </span>something living which has reason. But the kind of Being which belongs to a <span class="italic">ζῷον</span> is understood in the sense of occurring and Being-present-at-hand. The <span class="italic">λόγος</span> is some superior endowment; the kind of Being which belongs to it, however, remains quite as obscure as that of the entire entity thus compounded. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 49</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">2. The second clue for determining the nature of man’s Being and essence is a <span class="italic">theological</span><span>
</span>one: </span></span><span class="italic"><span><span class="calibre16">καὶ εἶπεν ὁ Θεός· ποιήσωμεν ἄνθρωπον κατ᾿ εἰκόνα ἡμετέραν καὶ καθ᾿ ὁμοίωσιν</span></span></span><span><span class="calibre10">—“<span class="italic">faciamus hominem ad imaginem nostram et similitudinem</span>”.(vii) </span></span><span><span class="calibre10">With this as its point of departure, the anthropology of Christian theology, taking with it the ancient definition, arrives at an interpretation of that entity which we call “man”. But just as the Being of God gets Interpreted ontologically by means of the ancient ontology, so does the Being of the <span class="italic">ens <span>finitum</span></span><span>, </span>and to an even greater extent. In modern times the Christian definition has been deprived of its theological character. But the idea of ‘transcendence’—that man is something that reaches beyond himself—is rooted in Christian dogmatics, which can hardly be said to have made an ontological problem of man’s Being. The idea of transcendence, according to which man is more than a mere something endowed with intelligence, has worked itself out with different variations. The following quotations will illustrate how these have originated: <span>‘<span class="italic">His praeclaris dotibus excelluit prima hominis conditio, ut ratio, intelligentia, prudentia, judicium non modo ad terrenae vitae gubernationem suppeterent, sed quibus <span> </span></span></span><span class="italic"><span>t <span>r a n s c e n d e r e t </span></span><span><span> </span>usque ad Deum et aeternam felicitatem.</span></span><span>’(viii) ‘<span class="italic">Denn dass der mensch sin <span> </span><span>u f s e h e n </span><span> </span>hat uf Gott und sin wort, zeigt er klarlich an, dass er nach siner natur etwas Gott näher anerborn, etwas mee <span> </span><span>n a c h s c h l ä g t</span>, etwas <span> </span></span></span><span class="italic"><span>z <span>u </span>z <span>u g s </span>z <span>u </span></span><span><span> </span>jm hat, das alles on zwyfel darus flüsst, dass er nach dem <span> </span><span>b i l d n u s </span><span> </span>Gottes geschaffen </span>ist’</span>.(ix)</span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">The two sources which are relevant for the traditional anthropology—the Greek definition and the clue which theology has provided—indicate that over and above the attempt to determine the essence of ‘man’ as an entity, the question of his Being has remained forgotten, and that this Being is rather conceived as something obvious or ‘self-evident’ in the sense of the <span class="italic">Being-present-at-hand</span> of other created Things. These two clues become intertwined in the anthropology of modern times, where the <span class="italic">res cogitans</span>, consciousness, and the interconnectedness of Experience serve as the point of departure for methodical study. But since even the <span class="italic">cogitationes</span><span>
</span>are either left ontologically undetermined, or get tacitly assumed as something ‘self-evidently’ ‘given’ whose ‘Being’ is not to be questioned, the decisive ontological foundations of anthropological problematics remain undetermined.</span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">vii. <span class="italic">Genesis</span><span>
</span>I, 26. [‘And God said, “Let us make man in our image, after our likeness.” ’—Tr.] </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">viii. Calvin, <span class="italic">Institutio</span><span>
</span>I, XV, Section 8. [‘Man’s first condition was excellent because of these outstanding endowments: that reason, intelligence, prudence, judgment should suffice not only for the government of this earthly life, but that by them he might <span class="italic">ascend beyond</span><span>, </span>even unto God and to eternal felicity.’—Tr.] </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">ix. Zwingli. <span class="italic">Von der Klarheit des Wortes Gottes</span><span> (<span class="italic">Deutsche Schriften</span>
</span>I, 56). [‘Because man <span class="italic">looks up</span><span>
</span>to God and his Word, he indicates clearly that in his very Nature he is born somewhat closer to God, is something more <span class="italic">after his stamp</span><span>, </span>that he has something that <span class="italic">draws him to God</span><span>—all </span>this comes beyond a doubt from his having been created in God’s <span class="italic">image</span><span>.’—Tr.] </span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 50</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">This is no less true of <span>‘<span class="italic">psychology</span>’, </span>whose anthropological tendencies are today unmistakable. Nor can we compensate for the absence of ontological foundations by taking anthropology and psychology and building them into the framework of a general <span class="italic">biology</span><span>. </span>In the order which any possible comprehension and interpretation must follow, biology as a ‘science of life’ is founded upon the ontology of Dasein, even if not entirely. Life, in its own right, is a kind of Being; but essentially it is accessible only in Dasein. The ontology of life is accomplished by way of a privative Interpretation; it determines what must be the case if there can be anything like mere-aliveness [Nur-noch-leben]. Life is not a mere Being-present-at-hand, nor is <span>it </span>Dasein. In turn, Dasein is never to be defined ontologically by regarding it as life (in an ontologically indefinite manner) plus something else. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10">In suggesting that anthropology, psychology, and biology all fail to give an unequivocal and ontologically adequate answer to the question about the <span class="italic">kind of Being</span><span>
</span>which belongs to those entities which we ourselves are, we are not passing judgment on the positive work of these disciplines. We must always bear in mind, however, that these ontological foundations can never be disclosed by subsequent hypotheses derived from empirical material, but that they are always ‘there’ already, even when that empirical material simply gets <span class="italic">collected</span><span>. </span>If positive research fails to see these foundations and holds them to be self-evident, this by no means proves that they are not basic or that they are not problematic in a more radical sense than any thesis of positive science can ever be.(x)</span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre6"><span><span class="calibre10"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">x. But to disclose the <span class="italic">a <span>priori</span></span><span>
</span>is not to make an ‘<span class="italic">a-prioristic</span>’ construction. Edmund Husserl has not only enabled us to understand once more the meaning of any genuine philosophical empiricism; he has also given us the necessary tools. <span>‘<span class="italic">A-priorism</span>’ </span>is the method of every scientific philosophy which understands itself. There is nothing constructivistic about it. But for this very reason <span class="italic">a <span>priori</span></span><span>
</span>research requires that the phenomenal basis be properly prepared. The horizon which is closest to us, and which must be made ready for the analytic of Dasein, lies in its average everydayness. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13"></span></span></span></p>
<p id="filepos288635" class="calibre_10"><span class="calibre11"><span class="bold"><span class="italic"><a><span>11. The Existential Analytic and the Interpretation of Primitive Dasein. The Difficulties of Achieving a ‘Natural Conception of the World’</span></a><span>
</span></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 51</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">The Interpretation of Dasein in its everydayness, however, is not identical with the describing of some primitive stage of Dasein with which we can become acquainted empirically through the medium of anthropology: <span class="italic">Everydayness does not coincide with primitiveness</span><span>, </span>but is rather a mode of Dasein’s Being, even when that Dasein is active in a highly developed and differentiated culture—and precisely then. Moreover, even primitive Dasein has possibilities of a Being which is not of the everyday kind, and it has a specific everydayness <span class="italic">of its own</span><span>. </span>To orient the analysis of Dasein towards the ‘life of primitive peoples’ can have positive significance [Bedeutung] as a method because ‘primitive phenomena’ are often less concealed and less complicated by extensive self-interpretation on the part of the Dasein in question. Primitive Dasein often speaks to us more directly in terms of a primordial absorption in ‘phenomena’ (taken in a pre-phenomenological sense). A way of conceiving things which seems, perhaps, rather clumsy and crude from our standpoint, can be positively helpful in bringing out the ontological structures of phenomena in a genuine way. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">But heretofore our information about primitives has been provided by ethnology. And ethnology operates with definite preliminary conceptions and interpretations of human Dasein in general, even in first ‘receiving’ its material, and in sifting it and working it up. Whether the everyday psychology or even the scientific psychology and sociology which the ethnologist brings with him can provide any scientific assurance that we can have proper access to the phenomena we are studying, and can interpret them and transmit them in the right way, has not yet been established. Here too we are confronted with the same state of affairs as in the other disciplines we have discussed. Ethnology itself already presupposes as its clue an inadequate analytic of Dasein. But since the positive sciences neither ‘can’ nor should wait for the ontological labours of philosophy to be done, the further course of research will not take the form of an ‘advance’ but will be accomplished by <span class="italic">recapitulating</span><span>
</span>what has already been ontically discovered, and by purifying it in a way which is ontologically more transparent.(xi)</span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13"></span></span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre9">xi. Ernst Cassirer has recently made the Dasein of myth a theme for philosophical Interpretation. (See his <span class="italic">Philosophie der symbolischen Formen</span><span>, </span>vol. II, <span class="italic">Das mythische Denken</span><span>, </span>1925.) In this study, clues of far-reaching importance are made available for ethnological research. From the standpoint of philosophical problematics it remains an open question whether the foundations of this Interpretation are sufficiently transparent—whether in particular the architectonics and the general systematic content of Kant’s <span class="italic">Critique of Pure Reason</span><span>
</span>can provide a possible design for such a task, or whether a new and more primordial approach may not here be needed. That Cassirer himself sees the possibility of such a task is shown by his note on pp. 16 <span>ff., </span>where he alludes to the phenomenological horizons disclosed by Husserl. In a discussion between the author and Cassirer on the occasion of a lecture before the Hamburg section of the <span class="italic">Kantgesellschaft</span><span>
</span>in December 1923 on ‘Tasks and Pathways of Phenomenological Research’, it was already apparent that we agreed in demanding an existential analytic such as was sketched in that lecture. </span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_11"><span class="calibre11"><span class="italic">H. 52</span></span></p><div class="calibre_9"> </div>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">No matter how easy it may be to show how ontological problematics differ formally from ontical research there are still difficulties in carrying out an existential analytic, especially in <span class="italic">making a start</span><span>. </span>This task includes a <span class="italic">desideratum</span><span>
</span>which philosophy has long found disturbing but has continually refused to achieve: <span class="italic">to work out the idea of a ‘natural conception of the world’.</span><span>
</span>The rich store of information now available as to the most exotic </span></span><span><span class="calibre13">and manifold cultures and forms of Dasein seems favourable to our setting about this task in a fruitful way. But this is merely a semblance. At bottom this plethora of information can seduce us into failing to recognize the real problem. We shall not get a genuine knowledge of essences simply by the syncretistic activity of universal comparison and classification. Subjecting the manifold to tabulation does not ensure any actual understanding of what lies there before us as thus set in order. If an ordering principle is genuine, it has its own content as a thing [Sachgehalt], which is never to be found by means of such ordering, but is already presupposed in it. So if one is to put various pictures of the world in order, one must have an explicit idea of the world as such. And if the ‘world’ itself is something constitutive for Dasein, one must have an insight into Dasein’s basic structures in order to treat the world-phenomenon conceptually. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13">In this chapter we have characterized some things positively and taken a negative stand with regard to others; in both cases our goal has been to promote a correct understanding of the tendency which underlies the following Interpretation and the kind of questions which it poses. Ontology can contribute only indirectly towards advancing the positive disciplines as we find them today. It has a goal of its own, if indeed, beyond the acquiring of information about entities, the question of Being is the spur for all scientific seeking. </span></span></span></p>
<p class="calibre_6"><span class="calibre12"><span><span class="calibre13"></span></span></span></p>
</div>
<span><div class="calibre11"><div class="mbp_pagebreak" id="calibre_pb_13"></div>
</div></span>
</body></html>
